# QMSS G5072 Homework 7

Thomas Brambor

Build your own Python Package
============================

For this homework, I want you to create a simple Python package very much like we did in class.

## Creating a package

### 1. Create directory structure

a) Use `cookiecutter` to create the project directory structure. I suggest to use the [course cookiecutter template](https://github.com/py-pkgs/py-pkgs-cookiecutter.git) introduced in lecture.

Give the package a name and a short description (see below - we are adding the `ticatoe` functions). To help you avoid naming collisions on [test.pypi.org](https://test.pypi.org/) please use `tictactoe_<columbia_uni>`. E.g. my Columbia Uni is `tb2729`, so my package would be named `tictactoe_tb2729`.

Make sure that a `poetry` environment has been initialized for the project and a license has been chosen. 

b) Put your project under version control. To do so, create a **new public repository in
our [course organization](https://github.com/QMSS-G5072-2024) with a name of `tictactoe_<lastname>_<firstname>`. E.g. for
me the repo would be called `tictactoe_brambor_thomas`. Make a first commit with the current state of your package.

_Note_: We are making a public repo so that you can check the links work and other tools (
like [readthedocs.org](https://readthedocs.org/) will work without a hitch. After the exercise is graded, you are welcome to convert this into a private repository and remove the package from TestPyPI.


### 2. Add a function and documentation

a) In the source code of your package, add the following `ticactoe` functions from last week's exercise:

```python
def initialize_board():
    """
    Creates a 3x3 Tic-Tac-Toe board initialized with empty spaces.

    Returns
    -------
    list of list of str
        A 3x3 game board with all spaces initialized to ' ' (empty).
    """
    return [[' ' for _ in range(3)] for _ in range(3)]


def make_move(board, row, col, player):
    """
    Places the player's symbol ('X' or 'O') on the board at the specified position.

    Parameters
    ----------
    board : list of list of str
        The current game board.
    row : int
        The row index (0-based).
    col : int
        The column index (0-based).
    player : str
        The player's symbol ('X' or 'O').

    Returns
    -------
    bool
        True if the move was successful, False otherwise.
    """
    if board[row][col] == ' ':
        board[row][col] = player
        return True
    return False


def check_winner(board):
    """
    Checks the current board for a winner.

    Parameters
    ----------
    board : list of list of str
        The current game board.

    Returns
    -------
    str or None
        'X' or 'O' if there is a winner, 'Draw' if it's a draw, or None if the game is ongoing.
    """
    # Check rows, columns, and diagonals
    lines = board + list(zip(*board))  # Rows and columns
    lines.append([board[i][i] for i in range(3)])  # Main diagonal
    lines.append([board[i][2 - i] for i in range(3)])  # Anti-diagonal

    for line in lines:
        if all(cell == 'X' for cell in line):
            return 'X'
        if all(cell == 'O' for cell in line):
            return 'O'

    # Check for draw
    if all(cell != ' ' for row in board for cell in row):
        return 'Draw'

    return None


def reset_game():
    """
    Resets the game by reinitializing the board.

    Returns
    -------
    list of list of str
        A new 3x3 game board with all spaces initialized to ' ' (empty).
    """
    return initialize_board()
```

b) Note, I already added numpy style docstrings to save you a bit of typing. But, let's extend them a bit to make them even more useful. 

Extend the existing docstrings to include examples that demonstrate typical use cases for each function. Commit this change to git.

c) Use `sphinx` to create automatic documentation for your package. That also includes that you need to add `sphinx` as a dev dependency of your package (and I suggest to include the helper sphinx dependencies I showed in lecture as well). Make sure that your local HTML documentation has been created. Commit this change to git.

d) [OPTIONAL] Create documentation on https://readthedocs.org/. Provide a link to your documentation in your package `.readme` file.

### 3. Add tests

a) Add two of the tests from last week's homework exercise into the `test` folder of your package. Add `pytest` as a dev dependency of your package and make sure `pytest` is able to complete the tests successfully. Commit this change to git.

### 4. Publish to test.pypi.org

a) Build and publish your package to [TestPyPi]((https://test.pypi.org/)).

b) Try to install your package locally (via `pip` or `poetry`) from TestPyPi. Check if the functions work and have the documentation examples you added to them.

c) In your usual **private** student repository for our course, add a folder for HW7 and add a jupyter notebook.

In that notebook:

- provide a link to your TestPyPi package and the repo of your package
- directly install your package from TestPyPi (using `!pip ...`)
- import your package
- Provide an example that initializes the board, makes 3 possible moves for each player, and then checks if there is a winner.
- show the output of `help(<yourpackage>)` and `help(<yourpackage>.check_winner)`
- [Optional] provide a link to the package documentation on readthedocs.org

Commit this notebook and use that as your homework submission.

## Submit your homework

Please follow the [instructions](/Exercises/homework_submission_instructions.md) to submit your homework. The submission github issue should be in your usual private student repository. The homework is due on Wednesday, October 30 at 5pm.
